package vta // import "golang.org/x/tools/go/callgraph/vta"

Package vta computes the call graph of a Go program using the Variable Type
Analysis (VTA) algorithm originally described in "Practical Virtual Method Call
Resolution for Java," Vijay Sundaresan, Laurie Hendren, Chrislain Razafimahefa,
Raja Vallée-Rai, Patrick Lam, Etienne Gagnon, and Charles Godin.

Note: this package is in experimental phase and its interface is subject to
change. TODO(zpavlinovic): reiterate on documentation.

The VTA algorithm overapproximates the set of types (and function literals) a
variable can take during runtime by building a global type propagation graph and
propagating types (and function literals) through the graph.

A type propagation is a directed, labeled graph. A node can represent one of the
following:
  - A field of a struct type.
  - A local (SSA) variable of a method/function.
  - All pointers to a non-interface type.
  - The return value of a method.
  - All elements in an array.
  - All elements in a slice.
  - All elements in a map.
  - All elements in a channel.
  - A global variable.

In addition, the implementation used in this package introduces a few Go
specific kinds of nodes:
  - (De)references of nested pointers to interfaces are modeled as a unique
    nestedPtrInterface node in the type propagation graph.
  - Each function literal is represented as a function node whose internal value
    is the (SSA) representation of the function. This is done to precisely infer
    flow of higher-order functions.

Edges in the graph represent flow of types (and function literals) through the
program. That is, the model 1) typing constraints that are induced by assignment
statements or function and method calls and 2) higher-order flow of functions in
the program.

The labeling function maps each node to a set of types and functions that can
intuitively reach the program construct the node represents. Initially, every
node is assigned a type corresponding to the program construct it represents.
Function nodes are also assigned the function they represent. The labeling
function then propagates types and function through the graph.

The result of VTA is a type propagation graph in which each node is labeled
with a conservative overapproximation of the set of types (and functions) it
may have. This information is then used to construct the call graph. For each
unresolved call site, vta uses the set of types and functions reaching the node
representing the call site to create a set of callees.

FUNCTIONS

func CallGraph(funcs map[*ssa.Function]bool, initial *callgraph.Graph) *callgraph.Graph
    CallGraph uses the VTA algorithm to compute call graph for all functions
    f:true in funcs. VTA refines the results of initial call graph and uses it
    to establish interprocedural type flow. If initial is nil, VTA uses a more
    efficient approach to construct a CHA call graph.

    The resulting graph does not have a root node.

    CallGraph does not make any assumptions on initial types global variables
    and function/method inputs can have. CallGraph is then sound, modulo use of
    reflection and unsafe, if the initial call graph is sound.

    The supplied SSA functions must have been constructed with the
    ssa.InstantiateGenerics mode flag.

